the movie begins as joel dawson narrates
to us the current state of the world
he says that his life was normal like
any of us until the end of the world
it all started when a huge asteroid named
agatha 616 was heading straight to earth
humanity came together and sent several rockets
to destroy the asteroid before it hit the earth
and succeeded the asteroid was gone however
the rockets were destroyed to the radioactive
material in the rockets reigned back into earth
causing all cold-blooded animals to mutate so now
there are huge ants roaches crocodiles lizards
and many other huge animals who attack humans
the animals immediately started killing people
and within about a year 95 percent of the human
population was wiped out the ones who survived
hidden bunkers caves and panic rooms the surviving
humans have been living in such places for the
last seven years and one of them is joel he lives
in a bunker with other members the tiny place
doesn't provide room for privacy so joel complains
about two of the members having sex right beside
him as he pretends to sleep joel tells us that
everyone in the bunker is a couple except
for him their first baby was born last summer
they have established their own lifestyle vastly
different from how it was outside the bunker
joel's day-to-day life includes milking the
cow and cooking food they have a hunting
party every month in which some members of the
group go up and bring whatever food they can
joel writes letters to amy his girlfriend
before he lived in the bunkers that day joel
is practicing hitting targets when the lights in
the bunker start to flicker everyone starts to
pack their weapons to go out a mutated animal is
in the area joel asks them if they want his help
but the group tells him to stay in the bunker he
is a liability for them because joel cannot fight
the team then leaves to find and kill the
animal joel and a few others stay at the bunker
they monitor the group through a device and see
that one of the team is killed by the monster
joel gets a crossbow and goes to help them
one animal has slipped into the bunker
joel sees it and freezes although he has plenty
of chances to kill it he doesn't move at all
the animal is about to attack him when
the others from behind him kill it
cut to seven years ago the day the asteroid
was destroyed joel and his girlfriend amy
are in a car hanging out he draws a picture of
amy and she gives him a box of colors as a gift
as they kiss the emergency alarm goes off in the
city just then the pieces of rocket fall back
onto the city creating huge explosions the two
drive back home quickly after they had come home
everyone was packing their bags to leave for a
safe place the two hug for the last time separated
that day and have not met ever since she lives
in another colony a few miles away seven years
later joel still has the box of colors that he
uses to draw the monster animals on his notepad
that day jay speaks to her through a radio system
the two talk about the letters that joel writes to
amy every day but the call cuts off midway others
from the team mourn the death of their team member
suddenly joel asks the team about amy's colony
it turns out that it is only 85 miles away
it takes seven days to reach there joel
is determined to find amy this time
the team members are surprised because they know
joel cannot fight they try to persuade him to stay
but he packs his bag with all the necessities
and leaves the bunker for the first time he
looks at the map but cannot figure out anything
in it he even can't tell what direction is west
so joel takes a chance and heads in a random
direction he walks for a while thinking that
the journey is not as bad as he expected it to be
on his way he encounters several monster eggs but
tries to stay positive he finds a frisbee on the
ground and keeps it with him just then he hears
a noise nearby the team members had advised him
to run and hide instead of fighting the creatures
so joel goes into a nearby house it is empty as
expected curious he opens the fridge and sees a
creature there he immediately rushes back outside
he ends up in front of a small pond a tentacle
peeks out of it joel freezes like he does when
he is scared suddenly a huge mutated frog comes
out of the pond but joel doesn't move it attacks
joel with its tongue making him fall to the ground
a dog jumps on top of him out of nowhere just as
joel is about to run the frog catches his legs
with its tongue and drags him towards them the
dog saves joel from the frog and they both run
to a nearby van it seems to be the dog's home
joel notices boy written on the ceiling and
figures that it is the dog's name that night he
stays with boy in the van the following morning
he draws the dog in his notepad thanking him for
saving his life and continues his journey boy
follows him with his owner's dress it is the only
way boy can still be close to his owner joel keeps
the dress in his backpack and starts walking with
boy the two become best friends on their journey
boy protects joel from eating poisonous berries
and other dangers while joel tells him everything
about his life one day as they walk joel falls
into a pit the pit has several burrows inside it
a warm monster called the sand gobbler comes
out from one of the holes and attacks him
just then two survivors throw him a rope and
bring him out of the pit several worm monsters
attack him as he climbs up the survivors are a man
named clyde dutton and his eight-year-old friend
minnow minnow throws an explosive in the
pit and kills the rest of the monsters
as the two strangers continue their journey joel
and boy follow them for safety it turns out that
minnow's father and clyde son were killed by a
monster and they have been together since then the
duo is heading towards the north now where fewer
monsters live due to the cold climate and higher
elevation joel decides to be with them until they
have to part ways suddenly everyone freezes as
they come across a huge snail clyde makes joel
take his shirt off and gives it to the snail
his shirt had the smell of sand gobblers in them
which attracted other monsters now the snail will
spread it through the jungle and help them confuse
the monsters the snail slowly leaves minnow
teaches joel that like the snail some creatures
are actually nice you can tell by their eyes
for the next two days they teach joel to shoot a
crossbow in the right direction and other survival
skills joel draws every monster they come across
the day finally comes when they have to part ways
minnow insists he come with them to the north but
joel has to find amy clyde gives joel a grenade as
a parting gift as joel and boy continue heading
west boyz suddenly feels something is wrong and
hides joel tries to bring him out but before he
can he is attacked by a huge centipede monster
like the one he had encountered in the bunker
this time dole manages to point his crossbow
at him but freezes right after the monster
throws him away with its tail and surrounds boy
joel lies on the ground thinking of the day his
parents died with much determination he gets up
and shoots at the monster killing him he finally
saves boy and the two celebrate that night they
stay at a motel where they encounter a talking
robot named mavis the robot has 51 minutes of
battery left joel asks her if she has a working
outlet that he can use his radio on mavis offers
her remaining battery to him joel finally contacts
amy who is worried about him she tells him that
her colony is leaving for a new place very soon
they have found another group of survivors who
plan to take them somewhere safe before she can
tell him where they are going the power runs out
joel brings mavis outside and talks to her about
his feelings the robot shows him the picture of
his family through its database she plays a
song for them when suddenly her battery dies
boy and joel continue their journey the
following day as they walk they encounter
a queen sand gobbler clyde had warned them
about her being the most dangerous of them all
the queen attacks them and chases them
through the woods joel and boy hide by a river
however boy gets scared and starts barking giving
away their position boy's owner's dress falls into
the river which makes him get out of hiding the
queen finds their location but before she can
attack them joel uses the grenade to kill her
he falls into the water before the explosion
when he gets out of the water he finds several
leeches latch onto his body he screams at boy for
giving away their location earlier saddened boy
runs away from him joel now walks alone but the
leeches seem to have poisoned him with something
he gets light-headed and starts to hallucinate
just then a group of people appears before him
he opens his eyes to see amy in front of him
amy is surprised to see him too the two kiss
but joel falls unconscious soon after that when
he wakes up he is in a bunker amy greets him
as it turns out that he had kissed an old man
earlier the two are talking when amy is called by
another older woman after her parents died amy has
been in this colony taking care of the elderly
people there she is the head of the colony as
the elders depend on her they live on a beach joel
goes outside and sees the beautiful view several
people are packing to leave the place another
group of survivors had approached amy's colony
their leader cap had promised to take them to a
safer arena so now they are packing to leave joel
meets cap who is preparing for a party at night
camp brews his own beer which is the attraction
of the party later that day amy confesses she
is glad to see joel but has no romantic interest
in him she has grown into a different person
now and is mourning the death of a close one
suggesting that she was together with someone
else all these years before he died joel is
devastated and apologizes to her for not asking
before coming to see her amy assures him that
it is okay and invites him to join their colony
however joel decides to return back to his colony
and contacts them through the radio his friends
are happy and surprised to find out he is alive
they inform him that the bunker is no longer safe
for them and that they are planning to leave soon
the phone cuts off midway joel then notices the
berries and beer kept beside him by one of cap's
friends he sees that the berries are poisonous
the one that boy had warned him about earlier
joel realizes that cap and his crew are
planning to poison the other survivors
he goes out to tell amy but she is too drunk
to understand just then someone hits him on
the head and he falls unconscious the following
morning joel wakes up to him tied up on the beach
the others are in the same condition cap reveals
that he and his crew are actually pirates who
raid colonies for food and fuel he summons a crab
monster rigged with a makeshift electric collar
to eat the colonists they also use the crab
to toe their yacht as the crab attacks them
amy frees herself and joel she runs to fight the
crew and leaves joel to fight the monster crap
amy fights with the girl member of the crew
joel surprisingly manages to push the crab over
but cap electrocutes the crab and it hits joel
making him fall unconscious the crab then walks
towards joel as he retreats just then boy comes
to his aid as dana aims to shoot boy amy hits her
making her shoot the crab instead cap's crew runs
to the boat and gets back on their yacht the crab
is about to kill joel when he looks at its eyes
and notices that it is actually a friendly animal
it had gone wild because cap electrocuted it
so joel shoots at the chain that electrocutes
it which makes the crab docile again it leaves
the beach and goes to capsic to kill all of them
later that day joel packs his bag to get back
to his colony to help them he gives his book of
monsters to amy as a parting gift and they kiss
their goodbye we see joel survive the seven day
journey back to the bunker with boy he finally
meets his friends again they too decide to head
to a safe place in the mountains on the radio joel
inspires other colonies to come out to the surface
proving that life outside is still possible in
the end we see many colonies head towards the
mountains to live a better life clyde and minnow
are already there while joel and boy are also
heading towards the mountain trying to survive
the next journey subscribe for more videos like
this turn on notifications and leave a like
to help the channel out thank you for watching